2023 recap. (#7031)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2024/01/25/2024-01-25-jenkins-2023-recap.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins 2023 Recap"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- dduportal
- markewaite
- gounthar
- wadeck
- kmartens27
- alyssat
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2024/01/25/image1.png
links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2024/01/25/image1.png[Jenkins 2023 recap]

> link:/blog/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/[Here is 2022 Recap.]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:/blog/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/[Here is the 2022 Recap.]
```
Is this supposed to be here? I considered it a reference to use for composing this years recap, as opposed to something that should be included. However, I could be totally off base on this.

@alyssat should the 2022 recap be included here, or should we just focus on 2023?

Author: Ooopsie.
I hesitated, as it looked odd to me. 🤷

[[security-fixes]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: author:wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

The Jenkins Security team has multiple missions, the most visible of which to users is the publication of advisories.

In 2023, the team published link:/security/advisories/[17 advisories]: 4 included Jenkins core, and 13 were solely about plugins.
In total, 211 vulnerabilities were announced.

In terms of reporting trends, we have seen an increase in people reporting CVEs originating from dependencies.

> Our position on this issue is that when analyzing CVEs if they are impacting, we correct them and publish an advisory; otherwise, we publish a blog post only for the most popular ones, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[Spring4Shell] or link:/blog/2021/12/10/log4j2-rce-CVE-2021-44228/[Log4Shell].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our position on this issue is that when analyzing CVEs, if they are impacting we correct them and publish an advisory; otherwise, we publish a blog post only for the most popular ones, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[Spring4Shell] or link:/blog/2021/12/10/log4j2-rce-CVE-2021-44228/[Log4Shell].
```
Suggestion to move the `,`. The grammar remains correct, but the way it is currently written is a bit awkward. This helps clarify but keep everything as intended.

As part of our mission, raising community awareness about security is also a key factor in reducing the introduction of vulnerabilities at an early stage.
In this regard, we welcomed Andrea to our security team for a summer internship from June to August.
By the end of it, he had successfully reported 28 vulnerabilities.
For more information about his internship, you can read link:/blog/2023/08/23/summer-internship-in-jenkins-security/[his blog post].

Education and tooling are closely related for us.
We are investing time to propose new security automation and to improve our existing tooling.
This year, we link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/-wTosY82jZU/m/8OidfVTcAAAJ[introduced] the existing CodeQL ruleset for hosting requests.
This provided future maintainers with detailed explanations of the findings.
Along with this effort, we also enhanced our security scan by link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins-security-scan/pull/13[supporting warning suppression] through code annotation.

> Continuing with tooling improvements, we link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/8Ia0OBmzF1A/m/YBdi40u3BAAJ[added] a beta feature to the bot present in SECURITY tickets, allowing maintainers to block or unblock releases of their plugins, to reduce the likelihood of an involuntary release when one is staged in private for a future advisory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuing with tooling improvements, we link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/8Ia0OBmzF1A/m/YBdi40u3BAAJ[added] a beta feature to the bot present in SECURITY tickets, allowing maintainers to block or unblock releases of their plugins.
The intent of this feature is to reduce the likelihood of an involuntary release when one is staged in private for a future advisory.
```
Suggestion to separate the two sentences, and add a bit of syntax so that everything connects and makes sense.

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

Jenkins is a project of the Continuous Delivery Foundation.
We’re grateful for the many different ways that the Continuous Delivery Foundation supports the Jenkins project.
They provide financial support for Jenkins infrastructure, promotional support for Jenkins initiatives, infrastructure support for the Jenkins issue tracker, and consultation on many other topics.
The Jenkins project was well represented at cdCon 2023 and at cdCon Japan.

[[infrastructure]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/infrastructure.png[Infrastructure Update]

Contributed by: author:dduportal[Damien Duportal]

Infrastructure costs decreased by 21% in 2023 while usage increased.
Jenkins use is increasing worldwide and Jenkins infrastructure continues to meet the growing needs.

Jenkins infrastructure broadened its operating environments in 2023 by expanding its use of ARM64 processors to reduce costs.
Additional software improvements were implemented in the Jenkins Pipeline to reduce costs while maintaining reliability.

Costs were further reduced by the Artifactory bandwidth reduction project.

> We’ve gone from 50 TB per month to 15 TB per month of artifact repository bandwidth use thanks to help from JFrog and implementations of artifact caching proxies by the infrastructure team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve gone from 50 TB per month to 15 TB per month of artifact repository bandwidth use, thanks to help from JFrog and implementations of artifact caching proxies by the infrastructure team.
```
Suggestion to add `,`

We’re grateful for donations from our organizational sponsors like CloudBees, the Continuous Delivery Foundation, and the Linux Foundation and for our infrastructure sponsors including GitHub, JFrog, Atlassian, Microsoft, DigitalOcean, Netlify, PagerDuty, Discourse, Datadog, and Cloudflare.
We deeply appreciate the mirror providers around the world like Oregon State University Open Source Lab, Tsinghua University, XMission, Yamagata University, Servana, and RWTH Aachen University.

[[modern-ui]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/ui_ux.png[User Experience Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

> The badly outdated and unmaintained Prototype.js JavaScript library has been removed from Jenkins core and from over 50 Jenkins plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The badly outdated and unmaintained Prototype.js JavaScript library has been link:/blog/2023/10/09/prototype-removed/[removed from Jenkins] core and from over 50 Jenkins plugins.
```
Suggestion to add link to blog post announcing removal.

* Docker ssh-agent had link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pulls?q=is%3Apr+created%3A%3C2023-12-31+closed%3A%3E2023-01-01+[139 pull requests].
* Docker had link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/pulls?page=1&q=is%3Apr+created%3A%3C2023-12-31+closed%3A%3E2023-01-01[219 pull requests].

=== Expanded Compatibility Testing

The Jenkins project added over 90 plugins to the compatibility testing suite that is part of our plugin bill of materials.
The most popular Jenkins plugins are regularly tested in a Jenkins configuration with hundreds of other plugins.

These updates and transitions underscore our commitment to providing a robust and adaptable platform for our users.

[[documentation]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/02/07/2023-02-07-jenkins-newsletter/documentation.png[Documentation Update]

Contributed by: author:kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

Throughout 2023, the Jenkins site and documentation saw several changes from returning and new contributors.
Over the course of 12 months, the site had a total of *843* pull requests merged, *67* blog posts from *21* different authors, and *98* plugin wiki migrations completed.

> These pull requests and blog posts covered everything from small adjustments and refinements to monthly newsletters, to major announcements regarding Jenkins, and everything in between.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These pull requests and blog posts covered everything from minor adjustments and refinements to major announcements regarding Jenkins and everything in between.
```
Suggestion to fix the wording of this sentence

Some of the notable changes that happened were:

* The addition of the link:/doc/book/platform-information/[Platform Information] section, which contains Java information and Jenkins support policies.

> * The link:/blog/2023/10/25/what-is-the-plugin-health-score/[Plugin Health Score] is now visible on plugins.jenkins.io, providing users insight into the health of plugins in the Jenkins ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The link:/blog/2023/10/25/what-is-the-plugin-health-score/[Plugin Health Score] is now visible on link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[], providing users insight into the health of plugins in the Jenkins ecosystem.
```
Suggestion to link the plugins site.

* The link:/books/[Books] page was updated with new additions & formatting.
* The link:https://contributors.jenkins.io/[Contributor Spotlight] page was launched to highlight the heaviest contributors to Jenkins. The goal is to appreciate and showcase the talent and hard work that goes into keeping Jenkins working behind the scenes.
** This was done in collaboration with the Outreach & Advocacy SIG.

> There were also several enhancements to Jenkins.io for mobile users so that regardless of platform, everyone can access and read every screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several enhancements to Jenkins.io for mobile users were implemented so that regardless of platform, everyone can access and read every screen.
```
Suggestion to re-arrange the wording/syntax.

Additionally, there is a new layout for the blog, where each post is displayed as a card.

There was also the addition of UpdateCLI to the jenkins.io repository.
This has helped ensure that whenever new versions of Jenkins are released, the documentation is updated accordingly.
Thanks to link:/blog/authors/gounthar/[Bruno Verachten] for his work on getting this configured and added.

The link:/node/tags/gsoc2023/[Google Summer of Code] participants also provided various contributions to both Jenkins core and Jenkins.io, sharing their experiences and insights with the community.

> In the coming year, we are also planning on implementing a versioned documentation site, where users would be able to select which Jenkins LTS version they are using and see the corresponding documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the coming year, we are also planning on implementing a versioned documentation site, where users will select which Jenkins LTS version they are using and see the corresponding documentation.
```
Changing sentence syntax

> This is the result of a Google Summer of Code project, link:/blog/2023/09/24/building-jenkinsio-with-alternative-tools/[originally looking at alternative build tools for jenkins.io]. Thanks to link:/blog/authors/krisstern/[Kris Stern] and link:/blog/authors/vandit1604/[Vandit Singh] for all of their work on this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the result of a Google Summer of Code project link:/blog/2023/09/24/building-jenkinsio-with-alternative-tools/[originally looking at alternative build tools for jenkins.io].
Thanks to link:/blog/authors/krisstern/[Kris Stern] and link:/blog/authors/vandit1604/[Vandit Singh] for all their work on this.
```
Suggestion to adjust syntax

[[outreach]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/outreach-and-advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

> In 2023, through the collaboration and contributions of new and existing community members from around the globe, the Jenkins project successfully completed the following projects for the betterment of Jenkins:
> * The launching of a new site, link:https://contributors.jenkins.io/[contributors.jenkins.io], is dedicated to highlighting top Jenkins contributors who are dedicating their time and talent to shape the future of Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2023, through the collaboration and contributions of new and existing community members from around the globe, the Jenkins project successfully completed the following projects for the betterment of Jenkins:

* The launching of a new site, link:https://contributors.jenkins.io/[contributors.jenkins.io], is dedicated to highlighting top Jenkins contributors who are dedicating their time and talent to shape the future of Jenkins.
```
The space is needed to format the list properly after the fact.

* Participated in link:/projects/gsoc/2023/[Google Summer of Code 2023]
* Welcomed 80+ new contributors with over 400 pull requests merged in link:/blog/2023/09/20/Hacktoberfest-2023/[Hacktoberfest 2023]
* Participated in link:/blog/2023/09/06/devops-world-tour/[five DevOps World locations, with community speakers]
** Tim Jacomb - London
** Olivier Lamy - Singapore
** Mark Waite - New York, Chicago, and Santa Clara

> The Jenkins project is also excited to share what’s to come in 2024:
> * Jenkins in GSoC 2024: link:/blog/2023/12/05/google-summer-of-code-a-call-for-mentors/[Call for Project Ideas + Call for Mentors].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins project is also excited to share what’s to come in 2024:

* Jenkins in GSoC 2024: link:/blog/2023/12/05/google-summer-of-code-a-call-for-mentors/[Call for Project Ideas + Call for Mentors].
```
Same as above, adding break between `:` and first point so that list is formatted accordingly.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/outreach-and-advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

In 2023, through the collaboration and contributions of new and existing community members from around the globe, the Jenkins project successfully completed the following projects for the betterment of Jenkins:

* The launching of a new site, link:https://contributors.jenkins.io/[contributors.jenkins.io], is dedicated to highlighting top Jenkins contributors who are dedicating their time and talent to shape the future of Jenkins.
* Participated in link:/projects/gsoc/2023/[Google Summer of Code 2023]
* Welcomed 80+ new contributors with over 400 pull requests merged in link:/blog/2023/09/20/Hacktoberfest-2023/[Hacktoberfest 2023]
* Participated in link:/blog/2023/09/06/devops-world-tour/[five DevOps World locations, with community speakers]
** Tim Jacomb - London
** Olivier Lamy - Singapore
** Mark Waite - New York, Chicago, and Santa Clara

Along the way, Jenkins won the link:https://devopsdozen.com/devops-dozen-2023-community-award-winners/[DevOps Dozen Most Innovative DevOps Open Source Project award for 2023]!

> image:/images/post-images/2024/01/15/award.png[DevOps Dozen Most Innovative DevOps Open Source Project award., role=center, width=839]

Author: ```suggestion
image:/images/post-images/2024/01/25/award.png[DevOps Dozen Most Innovative DevOps Open Source Project award., role=center, width=839]
```

> +
> image:/images/post-images/2024/9_Most_Innovative_DevOps_Open_Source_Project.png[DevOps Dozen Most Innovative DevOps Open Source Project award., role=center]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

image:/images/post-images/2024/9_Most_Innovative_DevOps_Open_Source_Project.png[DevOps Dozen Most Innovative DevOps Open Source Project award., role=center, width=839]
```
